README.md, before:

# 🚀 SLIIT DevOps Workshop

Welcome to the SLIIT DevOps Workshop repository! This is a hands-on learning resource designed for university undergraduates to explore DevOps concepts through practical examples.

## 📋 Workshop Overview

This repository contains a simple Express.js API application that serves as a foundation for learning DevOps practices including:
- **Continuous Integration (CI)**
- **Continuous Deployment (CD)**
- **Testing Automation**
- **Containerization**
- **Infrastructure as Code**
- **Monitoring & Logging**

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
├── index.js           # Main Express.js application
├── index.test.js      # Jest test cases
├── package.json       # Node.js dependencies and scripts
└── README.md         # This file
```

## 🛠️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation & Running

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/njay4928/sliit-devops-workshop.git
   cd sliit-devops-workshop
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

4. Run tests:
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8080`

### API Endpoints
- `POST /add` - Adds two numbers
  ```json
  {
    "a": 5,
    "b": 3
  }
  ```

## 📚 Essential DevOps Learning Resources

### 🗺️ Roadmaps & Learning Paths

- **[DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops)** - Comprehensive visual guide to becoming a DevOps engineer
- **[DevOps Roadmap by Milan Milanović](https://github.com/milanm/DevOps-Roadmap/tree/master)** - Detailed step-by-step roadmap with resources

### ☁️ Cloud Platform Learning

#### Google Cloud Platform
- **[Google Cloud Skills Boost - DevOps Engineer Path](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/20)** - Hands-on labs and courses

#### Amazon Web Services
- **[AWS DevOps Training](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learn-about/devops/)** - Official AWS DevOps learning resources

#### Microsoft Azure
- **[Azure DevOps Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/get-started/?view=azure-devops)** - Getting started with Azure DevOps

### 🎓 Free Learning Platforms

#### Online Courses
- **[Udemy Free DevOps Courses](https://www.udemy.com/courses/search/?price=price-free&q=devops)** - Search for free DevOps courses
- **[KodeKloud](https://kodekloud.com/)** - Hands-on DevOps labs and courses
  - **100 Days of DevOps Challenge** - Structured learning program

#### Student Resources
- **[GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)** - Free tools and services for students
  - Includes credits for major cloud platforms
  - Access to premium development tools
  - Free domain names and hosting

### 📺 Recommended YouTube Channels

- **[Abhishek Veeramalla](https://www.youtube.com/@AbhishekVeeramalla)** - DevOps tutorials and real-world projects
- **[TechWorld with Nana](https://www.youtube.com/@TechWorldwithNana)** - DevOps and cloud technologies
- **[DevOps Journey](https://www.youtube.com/@DevOpsJourney)** - Practical DevOps implementations
- **[That DevOps Guy](https://www.youtube.com/@MarcelDempers)** - Docker, Kubernetes, and cloud-native technologies

## 🛠️ Tools You'll Learn

### Version Control
- Git & GitHub
- GitLab
- Bitbucket

### CI/CD
- GitHub Actions
- Jenkins
- GitLab CI/CD
- Azure DevOps Pipelines

### Containerization & Orchestration
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Docker Compose

### Infrastructure as Code
- Terraform
- AWS CloudFormation
- Azure ARM Templates

### Monitoring & Logging
- Prometheus & Grafana
- ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)
- AWS CloudWatch

### Cloud Platforms
- AWS (Amazon Web Services)
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Microsoft Azure

## 🎯 Workshop Objectives

By the end of this workshop, you should be able to:

1. ✅ Set up a basic CI/CD pipeline
2. ✅ Containerize applications using Docker
3. ✅ Deploy applications to cloud platforms
4. ✅ Implement automated testing
5. ✅ Monitor application performance
6. ✅ Practice Infrastructure as Code
7. ✅ Understand DevOps culture and practices

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from students and educators! Please feel free to:
- Submit bug fixes
- Add new examples
- Improve documentation
- Share additional resources

## 📞 Support & Community

- 💬 Join our Discord/Slack community (link to be shared)
- 📧 Email: [workshop-support@sliit.edu.lk](mailto:workshop-support@sliit.edu.lk)
- 🐛 Report issues on GitHub Issues

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

- SLIIT Faculty of Computing
- DevOps Community Contributors
- Open Source Tools & Platforms

---

**Happy Learning! 🚀**

*Remember: DevOps is not just about tools - it's about culture, collaboration, and continuous improvement!*

Commit message:

Add speaker connections and support information to README.md

README.md, after:

# 🚀 SLIIT DevOps Workshop

Welcome to the SLIIT DevOps Workshop repository! This is a hands-on learning resource designed for university undergraduates to explore DevOps concepts through practical examples.

## 📋 Workshop Overview

This repository contains a simple Express.js API application that serves as a foundation for learning DevOps practices including:
- **Continuous Integration (CI)**
- **Continuous Deployment (CD)**
- **Testing Automation**
- **Containerization**
- **Infrastructure as Code**
- **Monitoring & Logging**

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
├── index.js           # Main Express.js application
├── index.test.js      # Jest test cases
├── package.json       # Node.js dependencies and scripts
└── README.md         # This file
```

## 🛠️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation & Running

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/njay4928/sliit-devops-workshop.git
   cd sliit-devops-workshop
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Run the application:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

4. Run tests:
   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

The API will be available at `http://localhost:8080`

### API Endpoints
- `POST /add` - Adds two numbers
  ```json
  {
    "a": 5,
    "b": 3
  }
  ```

## 📚 Essential DevOps Learning Resources

### 🗺️ Roadmaps & Learning Paths

- **[DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops)** - Comprehensive visual guide to becoming a DevOps engineer
- **[DevOps Roadmap by Milan Milanović](https://github.com/milanm/DevOps-Roadmap/tree/master)** - Detailed step-by-step roadmap with resources

### ☁️ Cloud Platform Learning

#### Google Cloud Platform
- **[Google Cloud Skills Boost - DevOps Engineer Path](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/20)** - Hands-on labs and courses

#### Amazon Web Services
- **[AWS DevOps Training](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learn-about/devops/)** - Official AWS DevOps learning resources

#### Microsoft Azure
- **[Azure DevOps Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/get-started/?view=azure-devops)** - Getting started with Azure DevOps

### 🎓 Free Learning Platforms

#### Online Courses
- **[Udemy Free DevOps Courses](https://www.udemy.com/courses/search/?price=price-free&q=devops)** - Search for free DevOps courses
- **[KodeKloud](https://kodekloud.com/)** - Hands-on DevOps labs and courses
  - **100 Days of DevOps Challenge** - Structured learning program

#### Student Resources
- **[GitHub Student Developer Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)** - Free tools and services for students
  - Includes credits for major cloud platforms
  - Access to premium development tools
  - Free domain names and hosting

### 📺 Recommended YouTube Channels

- **[Abhishek Veeramalla](https://www.youtube.com/@AbhishekVeeramalla)** - DevOps tutorials and real-world projects
- **[TechWorld with Nana](https://www.youtube.com/@TechWorldwithNana)** - DevOps and cloud technologies
- **[DevOps Journey](https://www.youtube.com/@DevOpsJourney)** - Practical DevOps implementations
- **[That DevOps Guy](https://www.youtube.com/@MarcelDempers)** - Docker, Kubernetes, and cloud-native technologies

## 🛠️ Tools You'll Learn

### Version Control
- Git & GitHub
- GitLab
- Bitbucket

### CI/CD
- GitHub Actions
- Jenkins
- GitLab CI/CD
- Azure DevOps Pipelines

### Containerization & Orchestration
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Docker Compose

### Infrastructure as Code
- Terraform
- AWS CloudFormation
- Azure ARM Templates

### Monitoring & Logging
- Prometheus & Grafana
- ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)
- AWS CloudWatch

### Cloud Platforms
- AWS (Amazon Web Services)
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Microsoft Azure

## 🎯 Workshop Objectives

By the end of this workshop, you should be able to:

1. ✅ Set up a basic CI/CD pipeline
2. ✅ Containerize applications using Docker
3. ✅ Deploy applications to cloud platforms
4. ✅ Implement automated testing
5. ✅ Monitor application performance
6. ✅ Practice Infrastructure as Code
7. ✅ Understand DevOps culture and practices

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from students and educators! Please feel free to:
- Submit bug fixes
- Add new examples
- Improve documentation
- Share additional resources

## � Connect with Us

Meet our workshop speakers and connect with them on LinkedIn:

- **[Omantha Prasad](https://www.linkedin.com/in/omanthaprasad/)** - Workshop Speaker
- **[Chamara Shalinda](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chamarashalinda/)** - Workshop Speaker
- **[Navindu Jayatilake](https://www.linkedin.com/in/navindu-/)** - Workshop Speaker
- **[Krishan Shamod](https://www.linkedin.com/in/krishanshamod/)** - Workshop Speaker
- **[Madusanka Chandanamal](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chandanamal/)** - Workshop Speaker

Feel free to reach out for questions, career advice, or networking opportunities!

## �📞 Support & Community

- 💬 Join our Discord/Slack community (link to be shared)
- 📧 Email: [workshop-support@sliit.edu.lk](mailto:workshop-support@sliit.edu.lk)
- 🐛 Report issues on GitHub Issues

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

- SLIIT Faculty of Computing
- DevOps Community Contributors
- Open Source Tools & Platforms

---

**Happy Learning! 🚀**

*Remember: DevOps is not just about tools - it's about culture, collaboration, and continuous improvement!*
